# BIOMD0000000427: MODEL1209230000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000427.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000427.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Bianconi2012 - EGFR and IGF1R pathway in lung cancer

EGFR and IGF1R pathways play a key role in various human cancers and are
crucial for tumour transformation and survival of malignant cells. High EGFR
and IGF1R expression and activity has been associated with multiple aspects of
cancer progression including tumourigenesis, metastasis, resistance to
chemotherapeutics and other molecularly targeted drugs. Here, the biological
relationship between the proteins involved in EGFR and IGF1R pathways and the
downstream MAPK and PIK3 networks has been modelled to study the time
behaviour of the overall system, and the functional interdependencies among
the receptors, the proteins and kinases involved.

This model is described in the article:

[Computational model of EGFR and IGF1R pathways in lung cancer: a Systems
Biology approach for Translational
Oncology.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/21620944)

Bianconi F, Baldelli E, Ludovini V, Crin√≤ L, Flacco A, Valigi P.

Biotechnol Adv. 2012 Jan-Feb;30(1):142-53.

Abstract:

In this paper we propose a Systems Biology approach to understand the
molecular biology of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR, also known as
ErbB1/HER1) and type 1 Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF1R) pathways in non-
small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This approach, combined with Translational
Oncology methodologies, is used to address the experimental evidence of a
close relationship among EGFR and IGF1R protein expression, by
immunohistochemistry (IHC) and gene amplification, by in situ hybridization
(FISH) and the corresponding ability to develop a more aggressive behavior. We
develop a detailed in silico model, based on ordinary differential equations,
of the pathways and study the dynamic implications of receptor alterations on
the time behavior of the MAPK cascade down to ERK, which in turn governs
proliferation and cell migration. In addition, an extensive sensitivity
analysis of the proposed model is carried out and a simplified model is
proposed which allows us to infer a similar relationship among EGFR and IGF1R
activities and disease outcome.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels)
and identified by:
[MODEL1209230000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1209230000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


